Welcome guys and girls to another TerraForm with Jenkins demo.
In this demo, we are going to provision a Kubernetes cluster.
Let's get started.
There are some things to keep in mind for TerraForm Plus, Jenkins Plus.
So obviously the TerraForm for ECS is a little bit more involved than creating the VPC.
So the best way to do this is take the terraform from some official repository for this demo.
I'm going to use the official S X blueprint, so I'm going to go over the repository.
This repository is quite handy for you, for your real world projects.
And then this terraform also requires running help charts.
So we need to install help.
And then, like I mentioned before, as TerraForm releases new version, they change the key words.
I don't know why, but they do it and the existing TerraForm scripts will break.
So hopefully NWS keeps the TerraForm scripts up to date as the TerraForm version changes.
I am recording this lecture May of 2022.
So down the line, if you get an error, try to stackoverflow it.
Try to check the version requirements.
The official ethics blueprint does specify the version requirements, so check your TerraForm version
and all that stuff.
But hopefully everything runs smoothly.
And last but not the least, the AC two agent must have appropriate IAM role.
So for this demo I have attached the administrator role, but you can check the terraform output and
see what resources TerraForm created and then selectively attach those policies.
But anyway, let's go over that TerraForm official six blueprints.
All right.
So this is the repository for official TerraForm X blueprints.
If you go inside the examples folder, it has a lot of real world examples.
So this repository is really awesome.
So you can create a complete Kubernetes cluster with the add ons that you generally use, such as metric
servers, etc. You can install Kubernetes cluster with cross plan.
For us, we are doing this X cluster with the new VPC like a fresh install, but check this out if you
need a fully private access cluster, all the terraform are givens and once you understand this demo,
you can run all of this, right?
So that's the beauty of it.
So let me go back out and then go to X cluster with new VPC.
So what we are going to do is we are going to use this repository and then we are going to follow this
red me to create our Jenkins job.
So if you scroll down, it is going to specify the tools or softwares it need to run.
So it requests TerraForm.
A version should be greater than equal to 1.0.08 cli.
We already installed that as well so helm we need to install helm.
It should be greater than equal to 2.4.1.
And Kubernetes is basically the CTL package.
We are not going to do this one because we are not going to run it.
We're just going to provision the Kubernetes cluster.
We have separate demo on how to install applications into Kubernetes cluster using Gitops.
All right, so we have this terraform, we have a W s CLI, so let's install HELME and then we are going
to go and set up the Jenkins job.
All right.
So for that, you can go to official helm documentation and we are going to run this commands.
So let's connect to the Amazon, see to where our Jenkins is running.
So click this.
Click Connect.
All right, then I'm going to run this command.
Then I'm going to see.
What?
The file.
And finally run the shell script.
All right, helm installed.
So let's check.
Helm fashion.
All right.
Russian 3.8.2.
Helm is installed, so I'm going to scroll up and we have to use these steps.
So let's go to our Jenkins shop.
All right.
So we have a standard Jenkins job up type pipeline.
Nothing special, no options checked.
So this is the important part, the pipeline script.
So the first, we are cloning the TerraForm repo.
Again, I'm using pipeline syntax and this time we are cloning the S6 blueprint repository.
Right.
So basically the sequence blueprints code copy this.
We are using this pipeline syntax and then check out and then repository URL branch specify our main
and that's a public repository so we don't need credentials.
Here we go.
So I'm just going to copy this.
And then that's what I pasted here.
Okay.
And then this part we already know from the previous demo.
So Shell script block, we are seeding into example slash case cluster with new VPC.
So I am actually just following the commands here.
Right.
So it's doing Git Clone.
We did that with check out and then I'm doing seed examples and then terraform in it.
So if I go back to the Jenkins job.
In it.
And based on this red me file, it's doing an export a w s underscore region and then it is doing TerraForm
plan.
So if I go back to Jenkins, I am setting up a.
S region to us so s two and then terraform plan.
And then if I go back terraform apply without to appropriate it says entity has to apply so here to
apply or to approve and then the Jenkins job is going to wait till we click, proceed or abort.
It is going to ask a question whether we want to destroy the TerraForm resources or not.
So I'm going to go and show the X cluster on my console and then we're going to go and destroy it again.
Like I said in the last lecture, the seed only works within the scope of the shell script.
As soon as you get out of it, it goes back to the previous folder.
That's why I have to do a seed here again.
And then after from Destroy does that shatterproof.
I have also given the Jenkins file inside this TerraForm folder with the name X underscore Jenkins file
for your reference.
All right, so let's save this job and then click build.
Now let's go to console output.
So it's creating all this stuff.
VPC Private subnet, public subnet, net gateway.
EMI So this will take 10 to 15 minutes.
So I'm going to pause the video and come back once it's done.
All right.
So our TerraForm reply has finished running.
So if I scroll up, it shows all the details.
So it created a exe managed node group, it created the cluster with the name, it was pre prod dev
x.
So as I was saying, this creates a lot more resources than the VPC.
So you could see it created 75 different resources like public subnet, private subnet, NAD Gateway,
egress rule, all that stuff.
So let's go to a console and see if our X cluster is indeed there.
All right.
I am in a W.
S console to go to Elastic Community Service.
You can simply type X and how do we go Elastic Kubernetes service?
All right.
Our cluster is up and running as pre prod dev x.
So if I click it and go to configuration compute, here is the manage node group.
So if I go to EC2 I should see the worker nodes for this man is node group.
Let's go to easy to.
Instances, running instances.
So this is my Jenkins instance, but the bottom three are the instances for x.
Let's see.
Tag.
Yep.
NWS prepaid debit cards.
So the x cluster is up.
So at this point, you can give access to people.
You can deploy applications to it and all that stuff.
But like I said, we are going to deploy applications to X cluster using Jenkins and Gitops.
So in this lecture I just wanted to show how you can run practically any terraform from Jenkins.
But before we end the lecture, if you are following me, please make sure you destroy the x cluster.
Else we will pay a lot of money.
Click the arrow post for input destructor.
If I'm resources, click proceed.
All right, so now it should destroy the X cluster.
All right, I'll let it run.
But hopefully this chapter was useful.
My goal was not just to show you how to run one single terraform.
My goal was to show you how you can go to this official TerraForm Repository or any other official repository,
grab the TerraForm, install the required softwares, and then run it from your Jenkins file.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture by.